header {'class': 'site-header'}
For Employers For Professionals Sector overview Pathways Access routes Workplace outputs Experts Resources Explore resources Events Information sessions and professional events → Case studies Workplace learning and professional progression → Insights & news Guidance for employers and professionals → Book an information session Discuss pathway fit and eligibility → Funding & bursaries Compare DfE and IPC access routes → KBC Support Contact the team for personalised guidance → Pathway guidance Not sure which route fits your role? Use the interactive pathway and access-route tools on this page before booking a conversation. Start the quick check → Check eligibility Menu

section {'class': 'hero', 'id': 'overview'}
Construction & Infrastructure Project Controls Build the capability to control complex delivery. Develop the project-controls capability your organisation needs across planning, scheduling, cost, risk, governance and decision support. Choose the pathway that matches the responsibility your people carry today—and the level they are preparing to reach next. Compare professional pathways Check workforce eligibility 4 professional pathways 2 access routes 6-credit professional routes Limited places Illustrative professional workspace Construction Control Tower Integrated controls view Live Schedule confidence Critical-path review Review Cost forecast Latest estimate at completion Updated Risk exposure Escalation threshold Action Executive decision Evidence and recommendation Required

section {'class': 'sector-strip'}
Designed for project-driven sectors One professional foundation, applied across complex environments. Construction Civil engineering Infrastructure Energy & utilities Transport Major programmes

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'challenge'}
The construction challenge Data exists. Decision confidence often does not. Complex construction and infrastructure programmes become harder to control when schedules, cost forecasts, risk, change and governance operate as separate conversations. The result is late intervention, reactive reporting and reduced confidence at the point senior decisions must be made. The purpose of project controls is not to create more reports. It is to make better intervention possible—earlier. 01 Fragmented baselines Scope, schedule and cost are not governed as one integrated promise. 02 Delayed warning signals Variance appears in reports after recovery options have narrowed. 03 Weak decision linkage Project data is presented without clear interpretation or recommendation. Schedule Critical path and confidence Cost Forecast and variance Risk Exposure and response Change Baseline and control Governance Decision and assurance Integrated Project Controls Connected evidence → confident action

section {'class': 'section section-mist', 'id': 'pathways'}
Choose your professional direction Four pathways. Different levels of responsibility. Each route is designed around the decisions professionals make at work. The six-credit pathways combine mandatory core learning with specialist choices; PMO Certified is a focused four-credit route. Pathway 01 · 6 credits Operational Pathway Emerging and developing professionals Pathway 02 · 6 credits Strategic Pathway Senior controls and programme leaders Pathway 03 · 6 credits Chartered Pathway Senior evidence and professional progression Pathway 04 · 4 credits PMO Certified PMO governance and operating-model specialists Operational Pathway Build reliable controls close to delivery. For planners, schedulers, PMO analysts, project-controls analysts, assistant project managers and professionals moving into structured project-controls responsibility. Planning & scheduling Earned value Risk & control AI-enabled practice 6 credits Three mandatory core credits plus three specialist credits selected to match operational responsibilities. Mandatory core PMP preparation and professional development Project management foundation and applied practice 2 credits AI in Project Controls Certificate Responsible AI for analysis, reporting and workflow 1 credit Choose three specialist credits PMI Scheduling Professional (PMI-SP) 1 credit Earned Value Management (EVM) 1 credit Risk Management 1 credit Project Planning & Control (PPC) 1 credit Build integrated schedules Strengthen planning, logic and critical-path interpretation. Measure performance Connect progress, cost and earned-value evidence. Support earlier action Translate project information into operational recommendations. Access options DfE Funded Route subject to eligibility · 50% IPC Bursary Route with instalments up to 36 months. Compare routes → Strategic Pathway Connect controls to programme and portfolio decisions. For senior project managers, project-controls managers, programme managers, PMO leaders, heads of planning and professionals moving towards strategic governance responsibility. Programme governance Portfolio management PMO leadership Strategic risk 6 credits Three mandatory core credits plus three specialist credits selected for senior programme and governance work. Mandatory core PMP preparation and professional development 2 credits AI in Project Controls Certificate 1 credit Choose three specialist credits Managing Successful Programmes (MSP) 1 credit Managing Portfolios 1 credit Risk Management 1 credit Project Management Office (PMO) 1 credit Strengthen governance Design clearer programme and portfolio control frameworks. Improve executive visibility Connect controls evidence with strategic priorities. Lead intervention Use assurance, risk and portfolio insight to influence action. Access options DfE Funded Route subject to eligibility · 50% IPC Bursary Route with instalments up to 36 months. Compare routes → Chartered Pathway Build advanced PMO evidence and chartered-readiness capability. For experienced controls professionals, PMO leaders, portfolio professionals, project directors and senior practitioners preparing evidence for professional progression. Senior PMO evidence Portfolio or EVM elective ChPP progression Professional portfolio 6 credits Five mandatory credits plus one specialist elective. Professional recognition remains subject to the relevant body’s requirements. Mandatory core Certified PMO Professional Level 6 Advanced PMO, governance and operating-model capability 4 credits AI in Project Controls Certificate 1 credit Choose one specialist credit Portfolio Management 1 credit Earned Value Management 1 credit Build senior evidence Structure governance, assurance and professional-practice evidence. Prepare for progression Map experience towards relevant senior or chartered pathways. Influence at enterprise level Connect PMO, portfolio and executive decision systems. Access options DfE Funded Route subject to eligibility · 75% IPC Bursary Route with instalments up to 36 months. Compare routes → PMO Certified A focused route for PMO governance and organisational control. For PMO analysts, PMO managers, governance specialists, programme-office professionals and people establishing or improving a PMO operating model. PMO governance Standards & reporting Operating model Organisational capability 4 credits A fixed, focused professional route. Access terms and bursary support are confirmed separately after review. Fixed route Certified PMO Professional Level 6 PMO governance, standards, reporting, assurance and operating-model capability 4 credits Professional focus Governance and decision rights Core PMO services and maturity Core Reporting, assurance and value Core Clarify the PMO mandate Define services, decision rights and stakeholder value. Improve governance Build consistent standards and assurance practices. Develop maturity Create a practical roadmap for PMO improvement. Access terms Funding and IPC bursary support for the four-credit PMO Certified route are confirmed separately in writing. Ask an adviser →

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Choose your professional direction Four pathways. Different levels of responsibility. Each route is designed around the decisions professionals make at work. The six-credit pathways combine mandatory core learning with specialist choices; PMO Certified is a focused four-credit route.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'builder'}
Interactive pathway builder Build the credit mix around your responsibilities. Select a pathway and choose the specialist options that best match the work you perform. The tool is illustrative; the final sequence is confirmed after role, employer, prior-learning and funding review. Operational Pathway Strategic Pathway Chartered Pathway PMO Certified Operational Pathway Core credits are fixed. Choose three specialist options. 3 / 6 credits selected Mandatory core Choose specialist options Choose your specialist options. Your route is ready when the selected credits reach the pathway total.

section {'class': 'section section-mist', 'id': 'access'}
Funding & bursary access One professional pathway. Two access routes. Choose the pathway first. KBC then assesses whether the Department for Education Funded Route or the IPC Bursary Route is more suitable for your circumstances. Department for Education (DfE) Funded Route A UK government-funded route for eligible six-credit professional pathways, subject to employer participation, funding availability and a full eligibility assessment. Potentially fully funded ✓ For eligible employees in England Residency, employment and role requirements apply. ✓ Employer participation is required The employer must support the role, evidence and required paid learning time. ✓ Six-credit pathway funding Operational, Strategic and Chartered routes are assessed against the funded pathway criteria. ✓ Prior learning is reviewed Existing qualifications and experience may affect the final route. Limited funded places are reviewed on a first-come, first-served basis . Funding is never guaranteed until confirmed in writing. Check Funded Route eligibility Speak to an adviser Institute of Project Controls IPC Bursary Route For professionals who cannot access the DfE route, IPC bursary support can reduce the cost of selected pathways delivered through Kent Business College. Bursary support + flexible instalments Operational Pathway 50% IPC bursary Strategic Pathway 50% IPC bursary Chartered Pathway 75% IPC bursary Instalment period Up to 36 months IPC bursary places are limited and allocated on a first-come, first-served basis , subject to pathway suitability, approval and availability. PMO Certified terms are confirmed separately. Check bursary suitability Discuss IPC support 1. Choose pathway Operational, Strategic, Chartered or PMO → 2. Check eligibility Role, employer, residency and prior learning → 3. Receive route DfE Funded Route or IPC Bursary Route

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Funding & bursary access One professional pathway. Two access routes. Choose the pathway first. KBC then assesses whether the Department for Education Funded Route or the IPC Bursary Route is more suitable for your circumstances.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'ai'}
Core professional capability AI accelerates the work. Human judgement remains accountable. The AI in Project Controls Certificate develops responsible use of AI across planning, scheduling, earned value, risk analysis, reporting, assurance and management information—without removing professional review, confidentiality or decision accountability. It is a core component of the six-credit Operational, Strategic and Chartered pathways. Partnership model: the specialist certificate is owned and strongly supported by the Institute of Project Controls and delivered through Kent Business College. Final awarding arrangements are confirmed within the learner agreement. AI in Project Controls Certificate Plan Analyse Forecast Challenge Recommend Govern HUMAN professional judgement in the loop

section {'class': 'section section-cream', 'id': 'applications'}
Sector application Apply the same control discipline to different built environments. Case studies, templates and evidence can be contextualised to the type of construction and infrastructure decisions the learner or employer manages. Construction & civil engineering Transport & infrastructure Energy & utilities Major programmes & portfolios Construction & civil engineering Keep design, sequence and delivery connected. Typical decisions and evidence Use integrated planning, earned value, risk and change control to manage construction sequence, productivity, procurement interfaces and recovery decisions. Typical roles Planner, project-controls analyst, project manager, cost professional Typical evidence Baseline, schedule health, progress and change-control pack Common pain Design changes and delivery sequence are not connected early enough Desired result Earlier intervention and more credible completion forecasting Transport & infrastructure Coordinate interfaces across long, complex delivery chains. Typical decisions and evidence Strengthen interface planning, programme governance, risk escalation and integrated reporting across contractors, packages and public stakeholders. Typical roles Programme planner, controls manager, PMO lead, assurance specialist Typical evidence Interface register, integrated master schedule and governance pack Common pain Package-level progress does not reconcile with programme milestones Desired result Clearer cross-package confidence and escalation Energy & utilities Control high-risk delivery with stronger assurance. Typical decisions and evidence Connect schedule, cost, risk, regulatory constraints and operational readiness in environments where assurance and reliability are critical. Typical roles Project engineer, risk lead, cost engineer, programme controls manager Typical evidence Risk-adjusted forecast, assurance review and decision log Common pain Technical and commercial risk are reported in separate systems Desired result More coherent risk-informed programme decisions Major programmes & portfolios Prioritise investment and intervention across many projects. Typical decisions and evidence Use portfolio governance, benefits, PMO standards and strategic risk to focus leadership attention where it creates the greatest value. Typical roles Head of project controls, portfolio manager, PMO director, programme lead Typical evidence Portfolio dashboard, prioritisation model and PMO operating model Common pain All projects compete for attention without a common decision framework Desired result Evidence-led prioritisation and intervention

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Sector application Apply the same control discipline to different built environments. Case studies, templates and evidence can be contextualised to the type of construction and infrastructure decisions the learner or employer manages.

section {'class': 'section section-mist', 'id': 'outputs'}
Workplace evidence Create project-controls outputs that strengthen delivery. Professionals should leave with credible artefacts, clearer judgement and evidence of how they have improved planning, control, governance or decision support in their working context. Baseline & planning Integrated project baseline Connect scope, schedule, assumptions, governance and control points. Schedule intelligence Schedule health & critical path Test logic, float, interfaces and the credibility of completion dates. Performance control Earned value report Connect progress, cost and variance with interpretation and action. Risk & change Risk and change-control pack Create a controlled route from uncertainty and change to decision. Executive reporting Project-controls dashboard Present concise evidence, confidence and recommended intervention. PMO capability PMO operating model Define services, standards, decision rights and improvement priorities. Illustrative workplace outputs: the exact evidence depends on role, employer context, confidentiality requirements and the approved pathway.

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Workplace evidence Create project-controls outputs that strengthen delivery. Professionals should leave with credible artefacts, clearer judgement and evidence of how they have improved planning, control, governance or decision support in their working context.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'roles'}
Professional progression Prepare for roles that influence delivery—not only report it. The pathways are aligned to increasing levels of responsibility. Progression is illustrative and is not a guarantee of promotion or professional recognition. Operational foundation Emerging controls professional Build reliable planning, reporting and performance-control practice. PMO Analyst Project Controls Analyst Planner / Scheduler Assistant Project Manager Operational influence Controls specialist Own stronger schedules, forecasts, earned value, risk and change. Senior Planner Cost Engineer Project Controls Manager Risk or Assurance Specialist Strategic influence Programme controls leader Connect project controls to programme governance and senior decisions. Programme Manager Head of Planning Head of Project Controls PMO Manager Enterprise influence PMO & portfolio leadership Shape organisational control systems, assurance and portfolio decisions. PMO Director Portfolio Lead Programme Controls Director Governance or Transformation Lead

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Professional progression Prepare for roles that influence delivery—not only report it. The pathways are aligned to increasing levels of responsibility. Progression is illustrative and is not a guarantee of promotion or professional recognition.

section {'class': 'section section-dark', 'id': 'maturity'}
Employer capability Move from reactive reporting to decision-led control. Employers can use the pathways to develop a more consistent project-controls operating model across planning, cost, risk, reporting and governance. 01 Reactive Manual reporting Late variance visibility Unclear ownership 02 Standardised Common templates Defined control cycles Consistent governance 03 Integrated Connected baseline Cross-functional evidence Early-warning discipline 04 Decision-led Forecast confidence Risk-informed intervention Portfolio-level prioritisation Where is your organisation today? Book a short capability conversation to identify the most relevant pathway mix for your team. Book a capability conversation

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Employer capability Move from reactive reporting to decision-led control. Employers can use the pathways to develop a more consistent project-controls operating model across planning, cost, risk, reporting and governance.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'experts'}
Expert-led perspectives Learn from recognised project-controls, portfolio and PMO expertise. Featured expertise is aligned to the pathway ecosystem. Expert participation is confirmed for each cohort and module schedule. Project controls & standards Steve Wake Featured expertise in earned value management, project-controls standards and professional practice. EVM Standards Project controls Portfolio & strategic governance Stephen Jenner Featured expertise in managing portfolios, benefits realisation and strategic governance. Portfolios Benefits Governance PMO & P3M capability Ray Mead Featured expertise in PMO development, P3M capability and organisational project governance. PMO P3M Operating models

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Expert-led perspectives Learn from recognised project-controls, portfolio and PMO expertise. Featured expertise is aligned to the pathway ecosystem. Expert participation is confirmed for each cohort and module schedule.

section {'class': 'section section-mist'}
Applied professional learning Learn, apply, test and evidence. The learning experience Bring live construction challenges into the learning process. The pathway should connect structured professional learning with real workplace evidence, guided reflection and employer-supported improvement. 01 Prepare Review current evidence, role responsibilities and the control challenge. 02 Explore Use live teaching, cases, worked examples and professional discussion. 03 Apply Use the framework or technique in an approved workplace context. 04 Evidence and reflect Capture the output, professional judgement, impact and next improvement.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'eligibility'}
Quick access-route check Which route may be more suitable for you? This tool provides initial guidance only. Formal eligibility, funding, prior-learning, employer and bursary decisions are completed by Kent Business College and the relevant partners. Answer six short questions Select Yes, No or Not sure. Your result updates as you go. Initial guidance Complete the questions. We will compare your answers with the main Funded Route and IPC Bursary Route indicators. Funded Route: Department for Education (DfE), subject to full assessment. IPC Bursary Route: support for selected pathways where DfE funding is unavailable. Places: limited and reviewed on a first-come, first-served basis. Book an eligibility conversation Review both access routes

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Quick access-route check Which route may be more suitable for you? This tool provides initial guidance only. Formal eligibility, funding, prior-learning, employer and bursary decisions are completed by Kent Business College and the relevant partners.

section {'class': 'section-compact section-cream'}
Earlier in your project-management career? Explore the Associate Project Management Pathway. A focused three-credit route combining PMP development (2 credits) with the AI in Project Controls Certificate (1 credit). Commercial instalments may be available for up to 24 months; funded and bursary terms are assessed separately. 3 credits PMP · 2 credits AI in Project Controls · 1 credit Up to 24 months instalments Explore the entry pathway

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'faq'}
Practical answers Questions before you enquire. The final pathway, module mix, access route, fees and professional outcomes are confirmed through a written KBC assessment. What is the difference between the Funded Route and IPC Bursary Route? + The Funded Route is supported through the Department for Education and is subject to employment, residency, employer, prior-learning and funding requirements. The IPC Bursary Route is an alternative contribution towards selected pathway fees where DfE funding is unavailable or unsuitable. Is the DfE Funded Route guaranteed? + No. It is potentially fully funded for eligible six-credit pathways, but funding is subject to the applicable rules, employer participation, available funding, prior-learning assessment and written confirmation. Does six credits always mean six separate modules? + No. Credits describe pathway weight, not always the number of courses. PMP is shown as two credits and Certified PMO Professional Level 6 as four credits. Can I tailor my Operational or Strategic pathway? + The pathway builder shows the intended structure: PMP and AI are core, with specialist choices. The final combination must be approved against role responsibilities, employer priorities, evidence opportunities and funding requirements. Is the AI in Project Controls Certificate mandatory? + It is positioned as a mandatory core component of the six-credit Operational, Strategic and Chartered pathways in this page structure. Does the Chartered Pathway guarantee ChPP status? + No. It supports senior evidence and chartered-readiness development. ChPP and any other professional recognition are awarded only by the relevant professional organisation after its full requirements are met. How does the PMO Certified route differ? + PMO Certified is a focused four-credit route built around Certified PMO Professional Level 6. Its funding and IPC bursary terms are confirmed separately because it does not use the same six-credit structure. What does first-come, first-served mean? + It means eligible applications are assessed in the order they are completed, subject to pathway suitability, employer or bursary approval and available places. It does not override the eligibility or approval process. What if my employer cannot support the required paid learning time? + The DfE route may not be suitable. The IPC Bursary Route may provide an alternative professional-development option with flexible instalments, subject to approval and availability. What is the best next step? + Use the quick eligibility check, then book a one-to-one information session to review your current role, pathway fit, funding or bursary route and the evidence you can create at work.

section {'class': 'section-compact'}
Next step Choose your pathway. Check your access route. Complete a short assessment to identify the most suitable professional pathway and determine whether the Department for Education Funded Route or IPC Bursary Route may fit your circumstances. Check my eligibility Book an information session