header {'class': 'site-header'}
For Employers For Professionals Energy sector overview Pathways Access routes Workplace outputs Experts Resources Explore resources Events Information sessions and professional events → Case studies Workplace learning and professional progression → Insights & news Guidance for employers and professionals → Book an information session Discuss pathway fit and eligibility → Funding & bursaries Compare DfE and IPC access routes → KBC Support Contact the team for personalised guidance → Pathway guidance Not sure which route fits your role? Use the interactive pathway and access-route tools on this page before booking a conversation. Start the quick check → Check eligibility Menu

section {'class': 'hero', 'id': 'overview'}
Energy & Utilities Project Controls Build the capability to control complex energy delivery. Develop the project-controls capability your organisation needs across power generation, renewables, electricity networks, utilities, energy transition and major capital programmes. Choose the pathway that matches the responsibility your people carry today—and the level they are preparing to reach next. Compare professional pathways Check workforce eligibility 4 professional pathways 2 access routes 6-credit professional routes Limited places Illustrative energy delivery workspace Energy Delivery Control Tower Energy Delivery Control Tower Live Schedule confidence Integrated milestones and outage windows Review Cost forecast Estimate at completion and inflation exposure Updated Risk exposure Safety, regulatory and interface risk Action Operational readiness Commissioning, handover and benefits evidence Required

section {'class': 'sector-strip'}
Designed for energy and utilities One professional foundation, applied across the energy lifecycle. Power generation Renewables Electricity networks Oil & gas Nuclear & water Major energy programmes

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'challenge'}
The energy delivery challenge Energy programmes carry connected risks. Reporting often does not. Energy and utilities programmes become harder to control when technical scope, regulatory gates, outage windows, contractor interfaces, cost forecasts, risk, change and operational readiness are managed as separate conversations. The result is late intervention, reactive reporting and reduced confidence when leaders must make high-consequence decisions. The purpose of project controls is not to produce more dashboards. It is to make safer, earlier and better-informed intervention possible. 01 Fragmented programme baselines Engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning are not governed as one integrated promise. 02 Late risk visibility Supply-chain, regulatory, safety and interface risks surface after recovery options have narrowed. 03 Weak operational linkage Project data is reported without connecting delivery decisions to reliability, readiness or benefits. Schedule Milestones, outages and commissioning Cost Forecast, inflation and contingency Risk Safety, regulation and interfaces Change Baseline, scope and configuration Governance Assurance, readiness and decision Integrated Project Controls Connected evidence → reliable energy decisions

section {'class': 'section section-mist', 'id': 'pathways'}
Choose your professional direction Four pathways for different levels of energy responsibility. Each route is designed around the decisions professionals make across energy projects, programmes, portfolios and PMOs. The six-credit pathways combine mandatory core learning with specialist choices; PMO Certified is a focused four-credit route. Pathway 01 · 6 credits Operational Pathway Emerging energy project-controls professionals Pathway 02 · 6 credits Strategic Pathway Senior programme, portfolio and controls leaders Pathway 03 · 6 credits Chartered Pathway Senior evidence and professional progression Pathway 04 · 4 credits PMO Certified Energy PMO governance and operating-model specialists Operational Pathway Build reliable controls close to energy delivery. For planners, schedulers, project-controls engineers, PMO analysts, cost analysts, project engineers and professionals moving into structured energy project-controls responsibility. Planning & scheduling Earned value Risk & control AI-enabled practice 6 credits Three mandatory core credits plus three specialist credits selected to match operational responsibilities. Mandatory core PMP preparation and professional development Project management foundation and applied practice 2 credits AI in Project Controls Certificate Responsible AI for analysis, reporting and workflow 1 credit Choose three specialist credits PMI Scheduling Professional (PMI-SP) 1 credit Earned Value Management (EVM) 1 credit Risk Management 1 credit Project Planning & Control (PPC) 1 credit Build integrated schedules Strengthen planning, logic and critical-path interpretation. Measure performance Connect progress, cost and earned-value evidence. Support earlier action Translate project information into operational recommendations. Access options DfE Funded Route subject to eligibility · 50% IPC Bursary Route with instalments up to 36 months. Compare routes → Strategic Pathway Connect controls to programme, portfolio and investment decisions. For senior project-controls professionals, programme managers, PMO leaders, portfolio professionals and energy-transition leaders who support strategic governance and executive decisions. Programme governance Portfolio management PMO leadership Strategic risk 6 credits Three mandatory core credits plus three specialist credits selected for senior programme and governance work. Mandatory core PMP preparation and professional development 2 credits AI in Project Controls Certificate 1 credit Choose three specialist credits Managing Successful Programmes (MSP) 1 credit Managing Portfolios 1 credit Risk Management 1 credit Project Management Office (PMO) 1 credit Strengthen governance Design clearer programme and portfolio control frameworks. Improve executive visibility Connect controls evidence with strategic priorities. Lead intervention Use assurance, risk and portfolio insight to influence action. Access options DfE Funded Route subject to eligibility · 50% IPC Bursary Route with instalments up to 36 months. Compare routes → Chartered Pathway Build senior evidence for PMO and chartered-level progression. For experienced energy professionals who lead assurance, governance, programme controls, portfolio reporting or organisational capability and are preparing for advanced professional recognition. Senior PMO evidence Portfolio or EVM elective ChPP progression Professional portfolio 6 credits Five mandatory credits plus one specialist elective. Professional recognition remains subject to the relevant body’s requirements. Mandatory core Certified PMO Professional Level 6 Advanced PMO, governance and operating-model capability 4 credits AI in Project Controls Certificate 1 credit Choose one specialist credit Portfolio Management 1 credit Earned Value Management 1 credit Build senior evidence Structure governance, assurance and professional-practice evidence. Prepare for progression Map experience towards relevant senior or chartered pathways. Influence at enterprise level Connect PMO, portfolio and executive decision systems. Access options DfE Funded Route subject to eligibility · 75% IPC Bursary Route with instalments up to 36 months. Compare routes → PMO Certified Strengthen PMO governance across energy delivery. For PMO analysts, PMO managers, portfolio-office professionals and energy organisations establishing or improving standards, reporting, assurance and operating models. PMO governance Standards & reporting Operating model Organisational capability 4 credits A fixed, focused professional route. Access terms and bursary support are confirmed separately after review. Fixed route Certified PMO Professional Level 6 PMO governance, standards, reporting, assurance and operating-model capability 4 credits Professional focus Governance and decision rights Core PMO services and maturity Core Reporting, assurance and value Core Clarify the PMO mandate Define services, decision rights and stakeholder value. Improve governance Build consistent standards and assurance practices. Develop maturity Create a practical roadmap for PMO improvement. Access terms Funding and IPC bursary support for the four-credit PMO Certified route are confirmed separately in writing. Ask an adviser →

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Choose your professional direction Four pathways for different levels of energy responsibility. Each route is designed around the decisions professionals make across energy projects, programmes, portfolios and PMOs. The six-credit pathways combine mandatory core learning with specialist choices; PMO Certified is a focused four-credit route.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'builder'}
Interactive pathway builder Build the credit mix around your energy responsibilities. Select a pathway and choose the specialist options that best match the energy projects, programmes, portfolios or PMO responsibilities you perform. The final sequence is confirmed after role, employer, prior-learning and funding review. Operational Pathway Strategic Pathway Chartered Pathway PMO Certified Operational Pathway Core credits are fixed. Choose three specialist options. 3 / 6 credits selected Mandatory core Choose specialist options Choose your specialist options. Your route is ready when the selected credits reach the pathway total.

section {'class': 'section section-mist', 'id': 'access'}
Funding & bursary access One professional pathway. Two access routes. Choose the professional pathway first. KBC then assesses whether the Department for Education Funded Route or the IPC Bursary Route is more suitable for your energy role, employer and circumstances. Department for Education (DfE) Funded Route A UK government-funded route for eligible six-credit professional pathways, subject to employer participation, funding availability and a full eligibility assessment. Potentially fully funded ✓ For eligible employees in England Residency, employment and role requirements apply. ✓ Employer participation is required The employer must support the role, evidence and required paid learning time. ✓ Six-credit pathway funding Operational, Strategic and Chartered routes are assessed against the funded pathway criteria. ✓ Prior learning is reviewed Existing qualifications and experience may affect the final route. Limited funded places are reviewed on a first-come, first-served basis . Funding is never guaranteed until confirmed in writing. Check Funded Route eligibility Speak to an adviser Institute of Project Controls IPC Bursary Route For professionals who cannot access the DfE route, IPC bursary support can reduce the cost of selected pathways delivered through Kent Business College. Bursary support + flexible instalments Operational Pathway 50% IPC bursary Strategic Pathway 50% IPC bursary Chartered Pathway 75% IPC bursary Instalment period Up to 36 months IPC bursary places are limited and allocated on a first-come, first-served basis , subject to pathway suitability, approval and availability. PMO Certified terms are confirmed separately. Check bursary suitability Discuss IPC support 1. Choose pathway Operational, Strategic, Chartered or PMO → 2. Check eligibility Role, employer, residency and prior learning → 3. Receive route DfE Funded Route or IPC Bursary Route

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Funding & bursary access One professional pathway. Two access routes. Choose the professional pathway first. KBC then assesses whether the Department for Education Funded Route or the IPC Bursary Route is more suitable for your energy role, employer and circumstances.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'ai'}
Core professional capability AI accelerates energy controls. Human judgement remains accountable. The AI in Project Controls Certificate develops responsible use of AI across planning, outage and commissioning analysis, earned value, risk, reporting, assurance and management information—without removing professional review, confidentiality, safety or decision accountability. It is a core component of the six-credit Operational, Strategic and Chartered pathways. Partnership model: the specialist certificate is owned and strongly supported by the Institute of Project Controls and delivered through Kent Business College. Final awarding arrangements are confirmed within the learner agreement. AI in Project Controls Certificate Plan Analyse Forecast Challenge Recommend Govern HUMAN professional judgement in the loop

section {'class': 'section section-cream', 'id': 'applications'}
Sector application Apply the same control discipline across the energy lifecycle. Case studies, templates and workplace evidence can be contextualised to the energy environment, asset lifecycle and delivery decisions the professional or employer manages. Renewables & energy transition Power generation & grid Oil, gas & decommissioning Utilities, nuclear & major programmes Renewables & energy transition Control rapid growth across new technologies and interfaces. Typical decisions and evidence Use integrated planning, cost, risk and interface control across offshore wind, solar, storage, hydrogen and other transition programmes where technology, supply chain and consenting must remain connected. Typical roles Renewables planner, project-controls engineer, package manager, cost professional Typical evidence Integrated baseline, interface register, risk-adjusted forecast and commissioning plan Common pain Technology, consent, grid and contractor interfaces are managed in separate systems Desired result Earlier intervention and stronger confidence across development, construction and handover Power generation & electricity networks Keep generation, grid and operational readiness connected. Typical decisions and evidence Strengthen programme controls across power stations, substations, transmission, distribution and network reinforcement, connecting capital delivery with outage windows, safety and operational readiness. Typical roles Programme planner, grid project manager, controls manager, commissioning lead Typical evidence Outage schedule, integrated master programme, cost forecast and readiness dashboard Common pain Project milestones do not reconcile with outages, dependencies and operational constraints Desired result More credible delivery confidence and safer commissioning decisions Oil, gas & decommissioning Control high-risk delivery, change and assurance. Typical decisions and evidence Connect schedule, cost, risk, contractor interfaces, regulatory requirements and asset integrity across brownfield, shutdown, decommissioning and major modification programmes. Typical roles Project controls lead, shutdown planner, cost engineer, risk or assurance manager Typical evidence Shutdown plan, risk register, forecast pack, change log and assurance review Common pain Technical, commercial and operational risks are reported without one decision framework Desired result Stronger risk-informed intervention and controlled delivery through critical windows Utilities, nuclear & major programmes Govern long-term investment across complex portfolios. Typical decisions and evidence Use portfolio governance, benefits, PMO standards, regulatory evidence and strategic risk to prioritise investment across utilities, nuclear, water and other long-horizon asset programmes. Typical roles Portfolio manager, PMO director, programme controls lead, assurance specialist Typical evidence Portfolio dashboard, governance pack, benefits map and PMO operating model Common pain Many projects compete for investment and leadership attention without a common framework Desired result Evidence-led prioritisation, assurance and portfolio intervention

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Sector application Apply the same control discipline across the energy lifecycle. Case studies, templates and workplace evidence can be contextualised to the energy environment, asset lifecycle and delivery decisions the professional or employer manages.

section {'class': 'section section-mist', 'id': 'outputs'}
Workplace evidence Create energy project-controls evidence that strengthens delivery. Professionals should leave with credible energy-sector artefacts, clearer judgement and evidence of how they have improved planning, forecast confidence, governance, operational readiness or decision support. Programme integration Integrated energy programme baseline Connect technical scope, schedule, cost, approvals, interfaces and control points. Schedule assurance Outage, shutdown or commissioning schedule Test logic, access windows, dependencies, readiness and the credibility of key dates. Cost & performance Forecast and earned-value assurance pack Connect progress, estimate at completion, contingency and variance with action. Risk & regulation Risk, safety and regulatory control pack Create a controlled route from uncertainty, obligations and change to decision. Executive intelligence Energy delivery dashboard Present concise evidence on progress, forecast confidence, carbon, risk and readiness. PMO & portfolio capability Energy PMO operating model Define governance, services, standards, decision rights and portfolio improvement priorities. Illustrative workplace outputs: the exact evidence depends on role, employer context, confidentiality requirements and the approved pathway.

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Workplace evidence Create energy project-controls evidence that strengthens delivery. Professionals should leave with credible energy-sector artefacts, clearer judgement and evidence of how they have improved planning, forecast confidence, governance, operational readiness or decision support.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'roles'}
Professional progression Prepare for energy roles that influence investment and delivery. The pathways are aligned to increasing levels of responsibility across energy projects, programmes, portfolios and PMOs. Progression is illustrative and is not a guarantee of promotion or professional recognition. Operational foundation Emerging energy controls professional Build reliable planning, reporting and performance-control practice. PMO Analyst Project Controls Analyst Planner / Scheduler Project Engineer Operational influence Energy controls specialist Own stronger schedules, forecasts, earned value, risk and change. Senior Planner Cost Engineer Risk Analyst Project Controls Manager Strategic influence Programme controls leader Connect project controls to programme governance, outages and senior decisions. Programme Manager Outage / Commissioning Lead Head of Planning PMO Manager Enterprise influence Portfolio & transition leadership Shape portfolio investment, assurance and energy-transition decisions. Head of Project Controls Energy Portfolio Lead PMO Director Transformation / Transition Lead

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Professional progression Prepare for energy roles that influence investment and delivery. The pathways are aligned to increasing levels of responsibility across energy projects, programmes, portfolios and PMOs. Progression is illustrative and is not a guarantee of promotion or professional recognition.

section {'class': 'section section-dark', 'id': 'maturity'}
Employer capability Move from reactive reporting to integrated energy assurance. Employers can use the pathways to develop a more consistent energy project-controls operating model across planning, cost, risk, reporting, regulatory assurance and operational readiness. 01 Reactive Manual reporting Late risk visibility Disconnected asset data 02 Standardised Common templates Defined control cycles Consistent governance 03 Integrated Connected programme baseline Cross-functional evidence Readiness and early warning 04 Decision-led Forecast confidence Risk-informed intervention Portfolio investment prioritisation Where is your energy organisation today? Book a short capability conversation to identify the most relevant pathway mix for your projects, programmes or PMO. Book a capability conversation

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Employer capability Move from reactive reporting to integrated energy assurance. Employers can use the pathways to develop a more consistent energy project-controls operating model across planning, cost, risk, reporting, regulatory assurance and operational readiness.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'experts'}
Expert-led perspectives Learn from recognised project-controls, portfolio and PMO expertise. Featured project-controls, portfolio and PMO expertise can be applied to energy-sector planning, assurance, governance and delivery. Expert participation is confirmed for each cohort and module schedule. Project controls & standards Steve Wake Featured expertise in earned value management, project-controls standards and disciplined performance practice for complex energy delivery. EVM Standards Project controls Portfolio & strategic governance Stephen Jenner Featured expertise in managing portfolios, benefits realisation and strategic governance across long-term investment programmes. Portfolios Benefits Governance PMO & P3M capability Ray Mead Featured expertise in PMO development, P3M capability and organisational governance for project-driven energy organisations. PMO P3M Operating models

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Expert-led perspectives Learn from recognised project-controls, portfolio and PMO expertise. Featured project-controls, portfolio and PMO expertise can be applied to energy-sector planning, assurance, governance and delivery. Expert participation is confirmed for each cohort and module schedule.

section {'class': 'section section-mist'}
Applied energy-sector learning From live learning to energy programme decisions. The learning experience Bring real energy delivery challenges into the learning process. The pathway should connect structured professional learning with live energy projects, workplace evidence, guided reflection and employer-supported improvement. 01 Prepare Review role responsibilities, project context, evidence and the current control challenge. 02 Explore Use live teaching, energy cases, worked examples and professional discussion. 03 Apply Use the framework or technique in an approved energy workplace context. 04 Evidence and reflect Capture the output, professional judgement, delivery impact and next improvement.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'eligibility'}
Quick access-route check Which route may be more suitable for you? This tool provides initial guidance only. Formal residency, employment, employer, energy-role, funding, prior-learning and bursary decisions are completed by Kent Business College and the relevant partners. Answer six short questions Select Yes, No or Not sure. Your result updates as you go. Initial guidance Complete the questions. We will compare your answers with the main Funded Route and IPC Bursary Route indicators. Funded Route: Department for Education (DfE), subject to full assessment. IPC Bursary Route: support for selected pathways where DfE funding is unavailable. Places: limited and reviewed on a first-come, first-served basis. Book an eligibility conversation Review both access routes

header {'class': 'section-heading'}
Quick access-route check Which route may be more suitable for you? This tool provides initial guidance only. Formal residency, employment, employer, energy-role, funding, prior-learning and bursary decisions are completed by Kent Business College and the relevant partners.

section {'class': 'section-compact section-cream'}
Earlier in your project-management career? Build a project-management foundation for the energy sector. Explore the Associate Project Management Pathway: a focused three-credit route combining PMP development (2 credits) with the AI in Project Controls Certificate (1 credit). Commercial instalments may be available for up to 24 months; funded and bursary terms are assessed separately. 3 credits PMP · 2 credits AI in Project Controls · 1 credit Up to 24 months instalments Explore the entry pathway

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'faq'}
Practical answers Questions before you enquire. The final pathway, module mix, access route, fees and professional outcomes are confirmed through a written KBC assessment. What is the difference between the Funded Route and IPC Bursary Route? + The Funded Route is supported through the Department for Education and is subject to employment, residency, employer, prior-learning and funding requirements. The IPC Bursary Route is an alternative contribution towards selected pathway fees where DfE funding is unavailable or unsuitable. Is the DfE Funded Route guaranteed? + No. It is potentially fully funded for eligible six-credit pathways, but funding is subject to the applicable rules, employer participation, available funding, prior-learning assessment and written confirmation. Is this pathway only for renewable energy professionals? + No. The sector page is designed for professionals across power generation, electricity networks, renewables, oil and gas, decommissioning, nuclear, water, utilities, storage and energy-transition programmes, subject to role and pathway fit. Can I tailor my Operational or Strategic pathway? + The pathway builder shows the intended structure: PMP and AI are core, with specialist choices. The final combination must be approved against role responsibilities, employer priorities, evidence opportunities and funding requirements. Is the AI in Project Controls Certificate mandatory? + It is positioned as a mandatory core component of the six-credit Operational, Strategic and Chartered pathways in this page structure. Does the Chartered Pathway guarantee ChPP status? + No. It supports senior evidence and chartered-readiness development. ChPP and any other professional recognition are awarded only by the relevant professional organisation after its full requirements are met. How does the PMO Certified route differ? + PMO Certified is a focused four-credit route built around Certified PMO Professional Level 6. Its funding and IPC bursary terms are confirmed separately because it does not use the same six-credit structure. What does first-come, first-served mean? + It means eligible applications are assessed in the order they are completed, subject to pathway suitability, employer or bursary approval and available places. It does not override the eligibility or approval process. What if my employer cannot support the required paid learning time? + The DfE route may not be suitable. The IPC Bursary Route may provide an alternative professional-development option with flexible instalments, subject to approval and availability. What is the best next step? + Use the quick eligibility check, then book a one-to-one information session to review your current role, pathway fit, funding or bursary route and the evidence you can create at work.

section {'class': 'section-compact'}
Next step Build the capability to control complex energy programmes with confidence. Choose the pathway that reflects your responsibility, then complete a short assessment to determine whether the Department for Education Funded Route or IPC Bursary Route may fit your circumstances. Check my eligibility Book an information session