header {'class': 'header'}
Programmes Sectors Why KBC How we work Experts Resources Check eligibility Enrol now Menu

section {'class': 'hero'}
Engineering & Advanced Manufacturing Sector Control complex engineering programmes with precision, integration and confidence. Professional project-controls pathways for people who connect engineering design, production, supply chains, quality, cost, schedule, risk, change and assurance across complex products, systems and assets. Explore pathways Check eligibility Operational Pathway Strategic Pathway Chartered Pathway PMO Certified Engineering Delivery Control Room Design maturity Requirements, interfaces and approvals connected Schedule confidence Engineering, sourcing and production integrated Quality gates Verification and readiness evidence visible Change exposure Impact assessed before commitment From design intent to production readiness Turn engineering information into reliable delivery decisions. Connect requirements, scope, schedule, cost, risk, quality, change and assurance across the engineering lifecycle. Engineering-system focus Manufacturing, aerospace, automotive, rail and industrial systems. Work-based evidence Apply learning to live products, assets, projects and programmes. Flexible pathways Operational, Strategic, Chartered and PMO routes. Two access routes DfE Funded Route or IPC Bursary Route.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'value'}
Project controls that protect engineering value Deliver engineered systems with precision, predictability and controlled change. Engineering programmes operate through tightly connected requirements, design maturity, suppliers, tooling, quality, testing, production readiness and operational acceptance. Integrated controls help teams expose pressure earlier and make better decisions before cost and delay become embedded. Strategic value Stable baselines. Better trade-offs. Production-ready outcomes. Connect engineering scope, planning, cost, risk, quality, change and governance in one coherent control environment across products, projects and portfolios. Explore the professional pathways → ◎ Design visibility Connect requirements, design maturity, interfaces, decisions and approvals. ↗ Integrated planning Align engineering, sourcing, tooling, testing, production and launch milestones. ◇ Cost and value Build credible forecasts and understand the effect of technical trade-offs. ⌁ Risk and quality Identify technical, supply-chain and readiness exposure before commitment.

section {'class': 'section section-soft', 'id': 'applications'}
Built for engineering delivery One professional foundation across complex engineering environments. The same project-controls discipline supports different products, assets, production systems and regulatory environments. Select a domain to see how the delivery focus changes. Manufacturing Aerospace & defence Automotive Rail & transport Industrial systems Requirements Trace scope and decisions Readiness Control design-to-production gates Interfaces Connect teams and suppliers Assurance Evidence confidence and action Advanced manufacturing and Industry 4.0 Production systems, automation, digital operations and scale-up. Integrate product introduction, industrialisation, equipment readiness, supply chains, production planning, quality and performance improvement across advanced-manufacturing programmes. Product and production baselines Tooling and equipment readiness Supplier and interface control Quality, change and launch governance

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'pathways'}
Built on a professional pathway Choose the route that matches your role and responsibility. Every pathway develops professional decision-making through a structured credit model, live teaching, work-based engineering evidence and access to relevant professional progression. 6-credit pathway Operational Pathway For emerging and developing project-controls professionals working close to live delivery. PMP — 2 credits AI in Project Controls — 1 credit Choose 3 specialist credits Build the pathway → 6-credit pathway Strategic Pathway For senior managers, programme professionals and controls leaders influencing portfolio decisions. PMP — 2 credits AI in Project Controls — 1 credit Choose 3 strategic credits View pathway → 6-credit pathway Chartered Pathway For experienced PMO and project-controls professionals preparing senior evidence and progression. Certified PMO Professional L6 — 4 AI in Project Controls — 1 Choose 1 specialist credit Review progression → 4-credit pathway PMO Certified A focused route for PMO governance, standards, operating models and organisational control. Certified PMO Professional L6 PMO foundations and operating model Evidence-led professional practice Explore PMO route →

section {'class': 'section section-soft', 'id': 'builder'}
Build your credit structure Shape the pathway around your engineering responsibilities. Select a route to see the mandatory core and specialist options. The on-page builder is illustrative; final selections are confirmed during suitability and prior-learning review. 6 of 6 credits selected Operational Strategic Chartered PMO Certified Operational route: mandatory PMP and AI core, plus three specialist credits.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'outputs'}
Engineering project-controls evidence Create the outputs that strengthen engineering delivery and assurance. Demonstrate professional capability through evidence that supports real technical, commercial and programme decisions across products, assets and engineering portfolios. Integrated engineering baseline Requirements, scope, work breakdown, interfaces, design maturity, schedule and cost structures. Design maturity and requirements register Traceability, approvals, technical decisions, interfaces and configuration status. Integrated schedule and resource plan Engineering, procurement, tooling, testing, production and launch dependencies. EVM and cost forecast dashboard Performance indicators, variance analysis, estimate confidence and forecast interpretation. Risk, FMEA and change register Technical, quality, supplier, safety, commercial and configuration exposure. Production-readiness and assurance pack Verification evidence, readiness gates, recommendations and senior decision points.

section {'class': 'section section-soft', 'id': 'roles'}
Support engineering-delivery roles Prepare for roles that influence complex products, systems and programmes. Use project-controls capability to strengthen decision-making from concept and design through industrialisation, production, validation, launch and operational handover. 01 Project Controls Engineer Integrate scope, planning, cost, risk, change and engineering performance. 02 Planning & Scheduling Engineer Build and assure schedules across engineering, sourcing, testing and production. 03 Cost / Value Engineer Control estimates, forecasts, value decisions and commercial exposure. 04 Engineering Programme Manager Coordinate technical teams, suppliers, milestones and delivery outcomes. 05 Engineering PMO Manager Establish governance, reporting standards and portfolio visibility. 06 Systems Integration & Assurance Lead Challenge interfaces, readiness, evidence and confidence in delivery plans.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'learning'}
Applied professional learning From live teaching to engineering evidence. Learn, apply, test and evidence Professional development connected to live engineering work. Build capability through structured learning, guided workplace application, coaching and evidence that reflects your actual role. 01 Live professional teaching Concepts, methods, worked examples and sector discussion. 02 Workplace application Use the methods on relevant engineering projects, products, programmes or portfolios. 03 Evidence and reflection Demonstrate decisions, outputs, impact and professional learning. 04 Coaching and progress review Maintain momentum, address gaps and prepare for assessment.

section {'class': 'section section-soft', 'id': 'experts'}
Professional insight Learn from recognised project, portfolio and PMO expertise. Expert involvement should be confirmed for each cohort and module. The profiles below represent KBC’s wider professional community and expertise relevant to planning, portfolios, PMO and complex engineering delivery. Planning & controls Steve Wake Project-controls practice, planning, scheduling and professional capability. Portfolio & benefits Stephen Jenner Portfolio management, benefits realisation and strategic governance. PMO & P3M capability Ray Mead PMO operating models, organisational capability and programme governance.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'access'}
Funding and bursary access One professional pathway. Two access routes. Choose the professional pathway that reflects your responsibilities. KBC can then assess whether the Department for Education Funded Route or the IPC Bursary Route is more appropriate. Department for Education DfE Funded Route Eligible employees may be able to access a six-credit pathway on a fully funded basis, subject to the applicable rules and written confirmation. Paid employment in England Employer participation and approval Relevant workplace activity Paid learning time agreed Residency, prior-learning and funding assessment Check funded-route eligibility Institute of Project Controls IPC Bursary Route For suitable applicants who cannot access the Funded Route, IPC bursary support can reduce the cost of selected pathways delivered through KBC. 50% bursary — Operational Pathway 50% bursary — Strategic Pathway 75% bursary — Chartered Pathway Flexible instalments up to 36 months Subject to approval, suitability and availability Apply for IPC bursary support Limited places: Funded and IPC bursary places are limited and offered on a first-come, first-served basis , subject to eligibility, pathway suitability, employer participation where required and written confirmation.

section {'class': 'section section-soft', 'id': 'eligibility'}
Initial route check Which access route may suit your circumstances? Complete this short, non-binding check. It provides an initial direction only; KBC must still complete formal eligibility, prior-learning, employer and pathway suitability reviews. I am in paid employment in England. The Funded Route normally requires eligible employment in England. My employer is willing to support the pathway. Employer approval and participation are required for the DfE route. My role includes relevant engineering, project, programme, PMO or controls activity. Workplace responsibilities should support learning and evidence. My employer can provide the required paid learning time. The exact commitment is agreed in the training plan. I meet the residency and current funding requirements. Formal checks are completed before enrolment. Start by selecting the statements that apply. Your answers will indicate which route may be the better starting point.

section {'class': 'section', 'id': 'faq'}
Questions before you enquire Frequently asked questions. Funding, pathway and professional-recognition outcomes remain subject to formal assessment and written confirmation. Who is this engineering sector page for? + It is for engineering and advanced-manufacturing employers and professionals working across project controls, planning, scheduling, cost, risk, PMO, systems integration, product development, production readiness, quality, assurance and complex programme delivery. Are the six-credit pathways fully funded? + They may be fully funded through the Department for Education route where all eligibility, employer, prior-learning and funding conditions are met. Funding is not guaranteed until confirmed in writing. What is included in the Operational Pathway? + PMP carries two credits and AI in Project Controls carries one credit. The learner then selects three one-credit specialist options from PMI-SP, EVM, Risk Management and Project Planning & Control. How is the Strategic Pathway different? + It is designed for senior responsibility and combines PMP and AI with three strategic options selected from MSP, Managing Portfolios, Risk Management and PMO. Does the Chartered Pathway guarantee ChPP? + No. It supports senior evidence and professional progression, but ChPP and any external professional recognition remain subject to the relevant body’s separate requirements and assessment. What engineering evidence can be developed? + Evidence may include integrated baselines, requirements and design-maturity registers, engineering schedules, EVM and cost forecasts, risk and change controls, production-readiness plans and executive assurance packs, depending on the learner’s role. What does the IPC Bursary Route cover? + Subject to approval and availability, IPC bursary support is presented as 50% for Operational, 50% for Strategic and 75% for Chartered, with flexible instalments for up to 36 months. Are places offered on a first-come, first-served basis? + Yes. Funded and IPC bursary places are limited and offered on a first-come, first-served basis, subject to eligibility, suitability, employer participation where required and written confirmation.

section {'class': 'cta'}
Ready to take control Build the capability to deliver complex engineering programmes with confidence. Compare the pathways, complete an initial eligibility check or book a conversation about your organisation’s engineering project-controls needs. Check eligibility Compare pathways